All right we're now going to move on from celebrities and come down to earth a little and look at something
good Jason.
Now if you haven't seen it before.
Jason stands for javascript object notation even that's called javascript in the name.
It's not actually specific to the language javascript in any way.
It was developed to be able to pass information between websites or between pages on Web sites but it's
grown really to become one of the standard ways of passing information around the web.
So Jason and SML are really the two most commonly used ways of passing information from one program
to another.
So Jason basically looks like this.
It's surrounded by those cuddie brackets we're so familiar with.
And then this is a bit like an array.
We've got an employees object here.
And then that's essentially an array of first names and last names so we can extract the information
here.
And basically we put a bunch of employees and we can get their first names and last names so all Jason
is is a way of setting out data that can be processed by our programming language.
In this case Java to allow us to get the information and then do something with it.
The reason that Jason is so important is because API is that is application programming interfaces are
great ways to add features to your apps.
So if you want to make a weather app for example as we're going to be doing in the next lecture you
would need to get some weather information.
Now one way to do that would be to set up your own weather company and set up weather stations all around
the world.
More straightforward though would be to use a preexisting system and there are lots of API is available
completely free for you to use.
We're going to be using one called open weather map dot org because it meets the requirements and it's
free to use.
It does say here that you need to sign up for an API key.
They do that if you want to but I've actually found that a very low usage we can use it without an API
key at all.
API is of course aren't just about whether.
Pretty much all the big major services like Google Maps Facebook Twitter almost anything that you could
want to plug into with your app will have an API that you can use to being able to work with API.
And Jason is extremely valuable.
Before we go over to Android studio make.
Let's just have a quick look and see what the weather data looks like on open weather map.
Talk and here this is one of the reasons that we're going to be using this system because it allows
us very flexibly to just put in a city name and then get the weather for that city.
So if for example we go to the Web site API to open weather map dot org slash data slash 2.5 slash weather
and then question mark.
Q It was London that will give us in IP form the weather in London right now.
Not particularly inspiring but it is the precise dates that we need.
And then we can extract that and put it into our.
So you might be guessing what the first challenge is going to be.
Very simply I want you to use the code that we've used a few times now to download the contents of this
u r l.
You don't need to process them or anything yet.
I'll show you how to do that later on.
But just use the code that we've had so far which now should be reasonably solidly in your head at least.
Hopefully it will be after after this exercise to download the contents of this within your app.
Go for it.
All right.
OK.
I'm going to as usual start with a new project and we'll call this Jason Dema
all the usual settings nothing strange or different here.
And here we go.
We're not interested in the design of this one we're going to do everything in mind activity dog Java
as before.
So let's start without download task.
It's a public class we call it the same as before.
Download task.
And it extends
a sync task.
By the way when you're writing code like this it's a great idea to just talk through what you're doing
even though you might feel like a crazy person.
It's a really good idea to just remind yourself what exactly is I think just doing.
What are these parameters that we're about to put in etc. rather than just mindlessly repeating the
code that you've learnt before.
So async task allows us to run a task on the background thread which is a great idea if we're doing
something that might take a long time like downloading some web content we're going to pass a class
A string.
We don't need to do anything whilst the task is in progress and we want to return a string as well.
That should give us an era where it is and that error is that we're missing the do in backgrounded method
so we'll just get where studio to put it in for us.
OK.
So the dogs we're going to rename to you or else
and then just as before we'll create an empty string to store out results
we'll create a u r l called u r l
store r u r l and we'll create a t p u r l connection called u r l connection which initially will be
empty.
Now then we'll create you well as a new U R L from the U R L that we're passing to the method which
is going to be the first one in var Oaks.
So you are elss error that could fail.
If it's not a valid u r l.
So we need to surround it with try and catch
and then we're going to set up a u r l connection using u r l dot open connection and to make sure that
that's the right type we need to cast it.
H t t p u r l connection.
Could fail as well.
Say going at the catch clause to try catch up.
Then we create how input stream
called in.
We get that from you RL connection don't get input stream.
Then we create our input stream.
Rita
called Rita which has a new input stream reader from our input stream.
I n
then
we create our data variable which we're going to use to read the contents of our reader.
So I read it don't read and then we create a while loop which will run as long as data is not equal
to a minus one
and that's each time going to create a current character
which we're going to get from casting data to a character Job.
Then we'll take result and append the current character to it.
Whoops.
Using plus not exclamation mark.
And finally we'll take data.
And get it to read the next character
that we get.
And then when we're finished all that's what we're 10 results.
Now I'm going to shake this up very slightly and show you another way that we can work with results
rather than passing it back to the main thread and then getting the main thread to work with it.
And that is to use a different method called on post.
Execute.
There it is.
So we get all the defaults set up and essentially what this method is is a method that is called when
the
download Saurin when they do in background method has completed and it will be passed the whatever we
return from the DO IN BACKGROUND method so hopefully the results
and difference between the on post execute method and they do in that method is that they do in Bakra
method can't interact with the UI at all.
So I don't know if you've experimented with this but if you try and update a label for example in the
do in background method it won't work because that should only be done in the UI thread.
The main thread all in on post.
Execute.
We could update the UI.
We don't actually need to or we're going to do is log.
I
website content and result
and that's who got an error there because it refers to a string as s.
I think I'll call that result just to keep everything the same
OK.
So now all we need to do is call our download task method.
In uncreate and we'll do that in the usual way using download task tasks to create our new task.
And this is a new download task.
And then we'll run it using task to execute.
And then I think in my
clipboard I've still got the you are every we need.
And this time we don't need to display the result or log it here because it's already logged within
the do in background sorted within the async task download task extension right then.
So let's give that a shot just a note we haven't done anything new yet.
We haven't actually processed the Jason data.
All we've done is got the contents of this u r l which is something that we have done before but now
we should be pretty much expert at it.
And we should hopefully understand where all of these individual bits are doing.
And just before we run it let's not forget to put a request in the manifest so users permission Android
permission for internet.
All right.
Here we go.
And there it is.
There's our contents are coordinates London weather etc etc..
Fantastic.
So that's part's done.
So let's see how we process this information.
So we're going to be interested in is this weather part here we are not particularly interested in the
coordinates of the location we're going to be interested in the weather parts.
So first of all how do we extract that.
Well our first step
is to convert this which is currently just a string into actual Jason data and we can do that in Java
using J-Zone object
which creates a Jason object for us from a string which I'll call Jay object.
Well let's call it J-Zone object.
And this is going to be a new Jason object created from the result string.
Now that of course might well fail if the result string is empty for example or if this is malformed
Jason.
So if there's a problem with this Jason then it won't be able to convert it into adjacent objects so
you can imagine what we're going to have to do with that.
Surround it with try and catch that we get.
So we're catching the possibility that this Jason object is his bat essentially
say once we've got our Jason objects we can then extract particular parts from it say we wanted just
this weather part here.
We can take our Jason objects
and we can get a string from its
And the string that we want to get has a name of whether.
So that will then extract the wet part of the J-Zone object.
So then let's try logging that instead of logging the whole thing.
So it will change this to weather content.
And let's give it a name.
So this is going to be a string and we'll call it weather info.
OK.
So now we get a fairly similar result to this but we don't have the coordinates part.
We'll only have the weather part so should start with ID and then have main description etc.
and just one that's compiling.
It's worth mentioning why this is better than what we were doing in the previous videos because this
is a particular structure that this API has created for us.
So it's very unlikely that the API are just going to change the structure and break our app whereas
the posh 24 Web site have no reason not to change their HD now.
And if they did change the image to them that would break our app so much better to use API rather than
direct scraping from the web if you possibly can.
But knowing how to use both is very useful.
I can't say if we can find our code
there it is wonderful.
So as I said it starts with ID and then gets each part here.
So now we have a new challenge we need to extract the individual content from each of these.
So notice that what we've got here is a summary of mini Jameson's.
So we've got here an idea 12:55 amain of rain and the description of proximity shower rain and an icon
of 0 9 D.
Then we've got a similar bunch of content but with drizzle so idea of three 10 main of drizzle description
light intensity drizzle rain.
So we need to find a way to loop through all of that to get that information.
So as as usual with programming there's a number of different ways we could do it but I'm going to do
it in the way that I think is simplest and that is by initially taking our weather info which is this
whole long string here and converting it into a JSM array.
So we do that using Jasen array.
I'll call it a long array.
And this is a new Jason array from weather info.
OK.
The reason I can do that here is because this is set up as an array.
We've got an initial object here which is our first object in the array.
And then we've got a second object etc that might not be possible depending on the structure of your
adjacent but if it looks like this is just a collection of objects without any hierarchies or different
sections or anything like that then you can use Jason array.
And once you've got an array we can just loop through it so we can use a for loop.
We'll have an AI which is initially 0 will keep going as long as it is length less than the length of
the array and obviously will increment by each time.
And then within each of these we need to convert each of these to a separate Jaison object will have
their own.
So we'll create a new Jasen object of call it Jason part because it's a part of the whole Jason and
we get that from the array which remember is an adjacent array an array of Jason's and get Jason objects
and we want the object so we just looping through and this will convert each part in turn to a J-Zone
object.
And once we've got that we can do the same thing that we did up here.
You get to the string to get the individual bits that we want.
So we're not particularly interested in the ID but we are interested in the main whatever type of weather
that is and we are interested in the description as well.
So let's grab those for now we'll just lock them
say Main is going to be J some part don't get string.
Main And then the same thing for description.
So J some part to get string description
and select the wrong one that OK.
So it's a slightly laborious process going through and finding all the bits that we want.
But once that's been processed we should be able to access all of the different parts of the Jason that
we're interested in which in our case is just
the main and the description and there we go you can see we've got it there.
So it seems to be returning slightly different things each time.
That's probably just because this haze is coming in and out.
So we've got rain is now moderate rain.
Haze is haze and we've got thunderstorms this time proximity thunderstorm.
So there we go.
We've now extracted the contents.
And this is very much a general purpose script that you can use to process any type of JSM.
And then at this point you can do what you like with it really.
Usually we might want to put it into an array list or something else so that we can access it later
on.
But that will do for now.
We're now going to move on with this and create out what's the weather app.